::::::::::::::
Diehard
::::::::::::::
 Movie plot summary.



Die Hard

   New York cop John McCLane flys to Los Angeles on Christmas eve to spend the holidays with
   his family. He arrives at the Nakatomi corp. building for his wife's office party. International
   terrorists take over the building and hold every one as hostage to steel $600 million of bonds
   from the vaults of the building. Now its up to McCLane to face the terrorists and save his wife
   and the other hostages. 
Summary written by: 
   Sami Al-Taher {smmat@ukc.ac.uk}

Genre(s): 
   Action violence heist hostage 



If you'd like to write plot summaries for movies in this database, please read this guide



Additional information...

         


    [Name Search Form | Page] [Title Search Page] [Submissions Guides] 

Movie.Database@cm.cf.ac.uk 
::::::::::::::
ThePofessional
::::::::::::::
 Movie plot summary.



Professional, The

   A hit-man tries to lose himself in New York. When a neighbor family is killed, he takes in the
   surviving twelve year old girl, and teaches her to be a cleaner, so she can avenge her little
   brother. 
Summary written by: 
   Timothy King {mks765@nwu.edu}

   Leon is a hitman, and happy with his life. When a young women comes home to find her
   family has been killed by a drug dealer, she runs to him for help. When she discovers he is a
   hitman, she asks him to teach her the skills to take her revenge. 
Summary written by: 
   Colin Tinto {colint@spider.co.uk}

   Leon is a first-class hit man, but is also a sensitive guy who loves his potted plants. He is
   moral: "No women, no children" is his professional motto. He is sympathetic to his neighbor,
   Mathilda, a typically rebellious twelve-year-old who has trouble with her family. But when
   her father runs afoul of drug kingpin Gary Stansfield, Natalie turns to Leon for assistance. 
Summary written by: 
   Reid Gagle

Genre(s): 
   Thriller Comedy romance 

If you'd like to write plot summaries for movies in this database, please read this guide

Additional information...

    [Name Search Form | Page] [Title Search Page] [Submissions Guides] 

Movie.Database@cm.cf.ac.uk 
::::::::::::::
clerks
::::::::::::::
ARTS & MEDIA/CINEMA 

THE LITTLE MOVIES THAT COULD Some low-budget independent films will
give you more for your money than True Lies does 

By RICHARD CORLISS 

The Hollywood line is that this has been a summer of adult movies. But Forrest Gump, Wolf and
Clear and Present Danger are not primarily for adults - that is, for grownups in search of films a bit
more demanding than those in the standard coming-of-age, horror and thriller genres. Somebody has
to wonder: Can there be other kinds of pictures? And if they exist, can they connect with a sufficient
number of appreciative viewers?

The answers, right now, are yes and yes. American independent films - pictures made on low budgets
and released by smaller distributors - are shouldering their way into the Top 20 chart of weekly
box-office winners. How low is low-budget? Kevin Smith's Clerks, a wonderful day-in-the-life
comedy set in a New Jersey convenience store, arrives next month. The total budget was $27,575. If
Smith were given, say, the $100 million that True Lies is reputed to have cost, he could make 3,626
movies.

But forget the money. Almost by definition, independent films are acts of love, not commerce. They
are informed by the moviemaker's passion to put a vision on screen, and the process usually takes
torturous years. That may be one reason so many of these films seem on the sour side. When getting a
picture made means hocking your car, borrowing on your inheritance and panhandling your friends,
the art that results can look pretty desperate. All the new films discussed below, even the comedies,
play like cries from the heart - want ads from the abused and the absurd.

White male, early 20s, just wants to get through the day.

Dante (Brian O'Halloran) has the night shift at the Quick Stop convenience store in Leonardo, New
Jersey. Bright, dour and put-upon, he wastes or redeems his time by fretting about life - about
everything but his place in it, which he accepts with a readiness that annoys his friend Randal (Jeff
Anderson). Clerks is a nothing-much-happens-and-ain't-that-the-big-truth? movie that gets
considerable mileage from a couple of white guys, and their friends and customers, sitting around
talking.

The film looks no more expensive than it was; some of the acting (by local nonprofessionals) is
spectacularly amateurish; the story is a series of anecdotes about hockey, shopping and loving the one
you're with. But it's worth loitering in this shop. You never know what headline will show up on the
cover of a tabloid (SPACE ALIEN REVEALED AS HEAD OF TIME WARNER - REPORT
STOCK INCREASE).

Yes, the film has its share of scabrous banter - recombinant four-letter words galore - but the conceit
of Clerks is that foul-mouthed Jersey louts have elaborate vocabularies and pensive personalities.
When Randal isn't shocking the frail with a list of porn-movie titles, he is offering such bartender
wisdom to Dante as this: "That seems to be the leitmotiv of your life, ever backing down." Insults
cascade into insights; obscenity snowballs into philosophy. Keeping the mind alert and the tongue
sharp - for the eloquent jerks in Clerks, that's more than a defense mechanism. It's a vocation.

White male, late teens, desires to be left alone, preferably in the bathroom.

Raymond (Jeremy Davies) is the ideal student, the ideal son. So when his bullying, philandering dad
tells the boy to give up a prestigious summer job to care for his mother (Alberta Watson), he does so.
Mom, who has broken her leg, is a dish, and David O. Russell's Spanking the Monkey soon reveals
itself as The Graduate with one more taboo dropped. Instead of being seduced by his girlfriend's
mother, Raymond eliminates the middle-woman and emulates Oedipus. The tone here is so dry that
many viewers refuse to see this smart-looking film as a comedy. It is - a comedy of desperation, about
a kid who really doesn't want to have sex with anyone but himself. The movie is finally predictable,
but it has connected with a generation that believes it has been saddled with the thankless job of raising
its own parents.

Hispanic females, late teens and already older than Eve, seek communal sisterhood. Motherhood we
had forced upon us years ago.

In the Echo Park section of Los Angeles, it's hard for a man to survive. And it's almost harder for a
woman to survive when her man is gunned down, sent to jail or on the lam from his responsibilities.
From this sorority of the damned, writer-director Allison Anders (Gas Food Lodging) highlights four
young women in the episodic Mi Vida Loca/My Crazy Life. For them, romantic yearning is like an
image of lovers on a drive-in movie screen: huge and fleeting. The film has too many slow spots, and
its message is laid on with a trowel, but it has a kind of perverse Hollywood glamour. When the
camera holds on the gorgeous, thoughtful faces of Marlo Marron and Salma Hayek, beauty becomes
truth - the repository of hope and despair.

Black male, 12, wishes to play chess and, somehow, stop the ghetto madness.

We've seen it all before - if not in movies, then on the local news. A boy still in grade school peddles
cocaine for drug lords; he seems set for a short, brutal sentence in the prison of the inner city. But we
have not seen that story Fresh, from the perspective of young Michael (Sean Nelson), who has a lively
brain and a vengeful spirit to ensure his success on the streets. Nor have we seen the tale through the
acute camera eye of writer-director Boaz Yakin.

With its forays into Manhattan's Washington Square Park for lessons in chess from a sympathetic
father figure (here it's the always authoritative Samuel L. Jackson), the movie might aim to be a
Searching for Bobby Fischer in the Hood. But Fresh is so much more: a really good film, for a start,
made with a subtle precision that suggests a Vermeer landscape of the ninth circle of hell. Fresh
alchemizes the terrifying cliches of urban melodrama into annihilating poetry. A guarantee: the film's
last shot - just a boy's face, in ruins - will break your heart.

White male, late 20s, wants to visit Paris, pull off a bank heist with a psychotic old friend, and just
maybe survive.

All right, just because a film is small, that doesn't guarantee it's good. Like Kevin Smith and Quentin
Tarantino, Roger Avary is a graduate of clerking in video stores - the new film school. But Avary,
who worked with Tarantino on True Romance and Pulp Fiction, has not yet found his voice, at least to
judge from Killing Zoe, a noisy heist film with Eric Stoltz as the blase American in Paris.

The movie is a replay of Tarantino's Reservoir Dogs, a bloody study of macho alienation and Method
posturing. Jean-Hugues Anglade, the French star of Betty Blue, La Femme Nikita and the forthcoming
Queen Margot, bites off huge chunks of scenery as the nutty gang leader; his performance is a great
geyser of bad acting.

White female, fun-loving, 20s, wants to meet some hot babes.

Go Fish, written by Guinevere Turner (who is also a charmer in the lead role of Max) and Rose
Troche, and directed by Troche, offers a radical take on lesbians: they're human beings. Imagine! They
can be funny and horny. They look for love and, when they're not looking, fall in it. Max, "a carefree
Sappho lesbo," hooks up with gawky Ely (V.S. Brodie), who finds it hard to commit to anything, even
a haircut. And just like real people - oh, yes - lesbians can be long-winded, tortured and smug.

The movie makes an asset of its minimal budget by interpolating abstract footage and a few surreal
"trial" sequences that both tease and pay homage to gay feminism. For the uninitiated, there are a few
comic "inside" glimpses, as when Max and her clan gossip about lesbians in history, from k.d. lang all
the way back to Eve. At heart, though, Go Fish is a chummy date movie about the mundane, urgent
business of finding a lover. Max could be any teen on the Friday-night prowl, but with a nice bending
of Hollywood theology: girl meets girl, girl gets girl, nobody goes berserk.

Very white males, 20s, wish the world would accept them for what they are: American yuppies, and
isn't that enough?

Whit Stillman always stands out in the grungy group portrait of American independents: he's the one
in the navy-blue blazer and old school tie. In Metropolitan, released in 1990, he created an engaging
circle of Manhattan debs and preppies, enthralled by their own obsolescence. In Barcelona, on a larger
canvas, Stillman paints a sympathetic portrait of two Americans - Ted (Taylor Nichols), a genteel
businessman, and his snarkier cousin, Fred (Chris Eigeman), a naval officer - adrift in Spain during
what the film, with beguiling pomposity, calls "the last decade of the cold war."

Two movies into what deserves to be a long and unfettered career, Stillman has fashioned a subspecies
of civilized male that is as well defined as a Fitzgerald beau or a Cheever suburbanite. They are the
young, Reagan-bred Republicans who astounded their parents by turning out exactly like them, but
with a coating of Lettermanesque irony. They see The Graduate from the viewpoint of the spurned,
stuffy groom. They believe that being a salesman is "not just a job but a culture." They read the Bible
while dancing alone to Glenn Miller's PEnnsylvania 6-5000. And when they encounter sensuous
senoritas who declare, "I don't go to bed with just anyone anymore - I have to be attracted to him
sexually," these paragons of starched Waspness engage in prime Whit Stillman cross talk:

Ted: Spanish girls are very promiscuous.

Fred: You're such a prig.

Ted: I wasn't using promiscuous pejoratively.

Fred: I wasn't using prig pejoratively.

Barcelona has been scorned in some corners for wearing its conservatism on its tailored sleeve. But no
film, especially an independent film, should hew to a company line of political rectitude. Besides, a
Stillman movie delights because it shows its men-about-town to be just as estranged as any deli clerk
or Harlem youth. And how eager they all are for love - as eager as any downtown lesbians. Barcelona
is just that kind of post-modern romance: a G.O.P. Fish. 

Copyright 1994, Time Inc.
This document was last modified 17:44:35 EST Thu 3 Nov 94.
time-webmaster@www.timeinc.com
::::::::::::::
edwood
::::::::::::::
TIME Domestic
October 10, 1994 Volume 144, No. 15
Return to Contents page 
Not any more. Now schlock auteur Ed Wood is a brand name 

By Richard Corliss 

Come on, now! edward d. wood Jr. is not nearly the world's worst director. Lots of people made
movies that were even more desperately inept and ludicrous. It's true that Wood's cheap '50s
exploitation films - the heartfelt expose Glen or Glenda, the octopus-wrangling horror movie Bride
of the Monster and the sci-fi anticlassic Plan 9 from Outer Space - boasted floridly awful dialogue
and actors who seemed terrified to be on camera. But Wood had passion, ambition and, as a
heterosexual who enjoyed wearing women's clothes, a very chic identity crisis. His films were about
something: man's need to create a monument to himself, even if it ends up as a smirk on the face of
posterity. 

After his death in 1978, Ed Wood got the last laugh: his films were rediscovered, first as camp and
now as fodder for a light industry in cultural revisionism. The shaggy hagiography includes a breezily
lurid documentary, Ed Wood: Look Back in Angora; a second documentary on the making of Plan 9;
and even a porno homage - Plan 69 from Outer Space. And now there's Tim Burton's surprisingly
listless biopic, known simply as Ed Wood. Once a never-was, Wood is now a brand name. 

The Ed Wood script, by Scott Alexander and Larry Karaszewski (based on Rudolph Grey's excellent
1992 biography, Nightmare of Terror), posits Wood as a classic American optimist, a Capraesque hero
with little to be optimistic about, since he was also a classic American loser. That's a fine start, but the
film then marches in staid chronological order: Ed made this bad film, then this one, then a third. It
focuses on the director's curious cast of hangers-on (played here by Bill Murray, Jeffrey Jones, Lisa
Marie and others). They were all, as Wood's psychic sidekick Criswell intones in the 1965 Orgy of the
Dead, "monsters to be pitied, monsters to be despised, from the innermost depths of the world!" But
Burton treats them with stone-faced sympathy. 

Primary among these was the aging, decrepit but still majestic Bela Lugosi. Martin Landau does a
handsome turn as Lugosi - so strong that when he disappears, Ed Wood loses its momentum and
continues its death march on the shoulders of Johnny Depp, in the title role, an exemplary actor who
can't do much more than smile heroically in the face of every humiliation. Sometimes this is funny.
"Really?" Depp says, sounding like Jon Lovitz's Master Thespian on Saturday Night Live. "Worst film
you ever saw? Well, my next one'll be better!" 

Most of Burton's films have been better than better. One wonders why this one is so dishwatery - why
it lacks the cartoon zest and outsider ache of Beetlejuice, Edward Scissorhands or Batman Returns.
Could it be he gave the material too much respect? The real Ed Wood would have known how to do it:
with oddball twists and goofy stock footage, with no brains and a lot of heart. It would have been
dreadful, and it would have been better - more desperate, more daring. But this Ed Wood is dead
wood. 



        

Copyright 1994, Time Inc.

This document was last modified 22:18:03 EST Wed 2 Nov 94.

time-webmaster@www.timeinc.com
::::::::::::::
forrestgump
::::::::::::::
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
eye WEEKLY                                              July 07 1994
Toronto's arts newspaper                      ...free every Thursday
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Subject: REVIEW                                      REVIEW :Subject

                            FORREST GUMP
          Starring Tom Hanks, Robin Wright and Gary Sinise.
    Screenplay by Eric  Roth based on the novel by Winston Groom.
                 Directed by Robert Zemeckis. (STC)

                                 by
                           ALEX PATTERSON


At a bus stop in the American South, a slightly retarded adult man  
with the unlikely name of Forrest Gump (Tom Hanks) sits on a bench  
and begins to tell a stranger his life story. He was born "slow" (an  
IQ of 75), in Greenbow, Ala. His mother (Sally Field) and his  
childhood sweetheart (Robin Wright) always told him he was just as  
good anyone else, but the local yahoos bullied him just the same. So  
far, so good, I'm thinking, I can't say I was looking for another Rain  
Man, but it's pleasant enough and Hanks is terrific as usual.

An hour later, the bus and the stranger have come and gone: Gump's  
talking to other people. Only now it's about being a football hero,  
serving in Vietnam with his buddy Lt. Dan (Of Mice And Men's Gary  
Sinise), speaking at an anti-war rally in Washington. And meeting  
Presidents Kennedy and Johnson. And gracing the cover of Fortune  
magazine. The Black Panthers, the yippies, the guy who invented the  
happy-face T-shirt -- Gump's rubbed elbows with them all. In some  
cases, he's even given them their best ideas. Wait a minute, says I,  
this is less Rain Man than Being There: the simpleton who might just  
change the course of the world.

What begins by promising nothing but a gentle little domestic drama  
about a handicap later reveals an incredibly ambitious agenda: as the  
tales grows taller, they also broaden in scope beyond his family and  
his home state. This Gump character is either one astounding  
individual or the century's greatest liar.

And it doesn't really matter which, because this good-hearted  
imbecile is delivering a concise and frequently hilarious  
encapsulation of several decades of American history from civil  
rights to AIDS. All right, all right -- so maybe it isn't so much Being  
There as a fractured fairy tale with philosophical overtones, like  
The World According To Garp.

Whatever you choose to compare it to -- and Rain Man, Being There  
and Garp ain't bad things to be lumped with -- the whimsical yet  
thought-provoking Forrest Gump is sure to take you by surprise. Its  
melding of the silly and the serious is quite an achievement for  
screenwriter Eric Roth (working from Winston Groom's novel) and  
director Robert Zemeckis.

Previously known for such amusing fluff as Who Framed Roger Rabbit  
and the Back To The Future flicks, Zemeckis has now made a real  
movie: no less entertaining but with considerably more seriousness  
of purpose. Hell, he's even put together some of the best warfare  
scenes in recent memory: the sequences of Gump under enemy fire  
are harrowing as anything in Platoon, with things exploding as  
impressively as anything in Blown Away.

But the stuff in Southeast Asia is just the beginning of Gump's  
techno-trickery. Industrial Light & Magic, the people who gave  
Jurassic Park its bite, have inserted Hanks into news footage -- in a  
way that takes Zelig several steps further than Woody Allen ever  
imagined it could go. In a genuine modern miracle, the politicians  
and celebrities around Gump have been made to speak on the screen  
words they never said in life. (See it soon before your "friends" tell  
you all the good gags.)

As absurd, arbitrary and cruel as it sometimes is, Gump's world is  
still rather a good place to be: not without its share of heartaches  
and catastrophes (both personal and national), but full of joy and  
humor, too.

If it feels a lot like life, it's because Gump is like a Frank Capra  
classic for the '90s. This is what American mainstream filmmaking  
is supposed to be all about, and I'll be amazed it its deft  
combination of comedy and drama isn't an enormous critical and  
commercial success. Forrest Gump already looks like the best movie  
of the summer and an early contender for the best of the year.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Retransmit freely in cyberspace      Author holds standard copyright
Full issue of eye available in archive = gopher.io.org or ftp.io.org
eye@io.org          "Break the Gutenberg Lock..."       416-971-8421


.
::::::::::::::
frankenstein
::::::::::::::
Review

His heart belongs to daddy

Branagh and De Niro turn Frankenstein into a family affair

By Scott Rosenberg
Special to The Free Press SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 4, 1994 --In a coffin-shaped copper kettle,
amniotic fluid churns and bubbles, brewing up a monster made out of discarded body parts. "Raw
materials" -- that's what the disheveled scientist who's laboring over this equipment keeps calling the
ingredients of his stew. But these scraps of flesh, stitched together into a hideous simulacrum of the
human form, are definitely cooked.

Sounds like "Creature Features" with a touch of class? In a sense, that's precisely what "Mary
Shelley's Frankenstein" is.

Whatever mistakes it may make, this new "Frankenstein" -- director Kenneth Branagh's overblown
but occasionally inspired take on the old tale of monster and man -- must be granted this: It has a
strong stomach, and it does not flinch from some baroquely gory imaginings.

In particular, moviegoers will find much to chew on in the film's portrait of Victor Frankenstein as
both a scientist usurping God's power to draw boundaries around life -- and a man appropriating
woman's power to give birth.

The prime directive behind "Mary Shelley's Frankenstein" seems to have been: stick close to Shelley's
original tale and stay as far away as possible from the classic, Boris Karloff-inhabited original
movies, the 1931 "Frankenstein" and its superior sequel, "The Bride of Frankenstein."

The result may often wobble between costume drama and psychodrama, cautionary tale and demented
love story. But at least it's a horror film with a brain -- albeit one that sometimes seems to be pickled
in a jar.

Branagh, the Shakespearean actor-director who turned "Henry V" into a pageant of desperation and
"Much Ado About Nothing" into a jolly mess, manages to keep his wits about him, at least most of the
way through the film, even though he's both directing and playing the story's obsessive protagonist.
Branagh has a clear vision of what's at stake in Shelley's Gothic tale, with its Miltonic overtones and
its premonition of the ravages of technology unbound.

Branagh's Dr. Frankenstein is an ardent man of science -- his devotion to medieval alchemy
notwithstanding -- who forsakes his childhood sweetheart, Elizabeth (Helena Bonham Carter), to
master the secrets of artificial life. Without resort to blatant anachronisms, the movie draws your
attention to the parallels between Frankenstein's enterprise and those of present-day gene-splicers.

Where Shelley explained Frankenstein's obsession as a simple matter of intellectual devotion,
screenwriters Steph Lady and Frank Darabont give him a more personal rationale: After his mother
dies giving birth to his little brother, he cries to the heavens, "No one need die! I will stop this!"

Hubris, anyone?

This Frankenstein is a man out to conquer death, and he wants results faster than medical science can
provide. With the aid of a professorial mentor (an atypically glum John Cleese), he begins to study
electricity and eastern medicine. He builds a grand lab that proves to be production designer Tim
Harvey's burnished masterpiece. It's dominated by pendulous leathery sacs hanging from the ceiling
-- like a mammoth scrotum. (I know that sounds far-fetched, but wait till you see it.)

The process of "creating life" unfolds in a whirlwind of frenetic activity that comes across as a
combination of acupuncture, zymurgy and butchery. When it's all over, the monster (Robert De Niro)
rises from its primal soup -- and promptly slips on the floor, slick from the juices of its birthing.
Branagh's Frankenstein tries to help the monster to its feet, and the two wind up performing a weird
duet that's part sexual embrace, part vaudeville act and part mud-wrestling.

It's a hard scene to top, and in fact "Frankenstein" begins to decline from here on. De Niro's makeup
job is remarkable: he may lack neck bolts, but he makes up for it with enough pits and clefts and
sutures to keep the entire Beverly Hills plastic-surgery community employed into the next century.,p>
Still, you never really forget it's De Niro you're watching; he starts off looking pretty much the way
he did at the end of "Taxi Driver" and decays from there.

"Mary Shelley's Frankenstein" wants us to feel for its monster, and so its monster must have feelings.
The movie hews to Shelley's story in presenting the creature as more of a philosopher than the brute
familiar from the Karloff films. But then it goes a step further and turns him into a sort of wounded
child who's got to work out his bad relationship with daddy. Even in the alpine wilderness of
"Frankenstein," Hollywood can't escape its nuclear-family tunnel vision. 

Branagh loses control of the film in its final section, during which a character's heart is ripped out and
held up, beating, in the light. (Has the director been playing Mortal Kombat?) And the climax, which
you won't find in Shelley, involves a battle for Elizabeth's soul (and body parts) between Frankenstein
and his monster. If it's not family therapy, it's the romantic triangle cliche.

Such disappointments are magnified by the occasional awful supporting performances -- like Aidan
Quinn, who's woefully stiff as the ill-fated sea captain to whom Dr. Frankenstein tells his tale. In this
the film resembles "Bram Stoker's Dracula," the last film directed by "Frankenstein" producer Francis
Ford Coppola. 

"Mary Shelley's Frankenstein" has its loopy appeal, and anyone with a taste for gore or Gothic will get
at least one or two galvanic kicks out of it. But there's a deep psychological void at the film's center. It
wants us to see Frankenstein as a father-figure who unjustly spurns his offspring -- but it fails to
clarify that act of rejection or crystallize it in a scene. Instead, we're left to wonder why it is that the
good doctor disowns his creation.

It seems to be simply because the poor thing is ugly. And everyone knows that, no matter how
grotesque an infant might actually be, a parent is always going to find it cute. "Mary Shelley's
Frankenstein" opens Friday, Nov. 4, at the Kabuki and Alexandria theaters in San Francisco and other
theaters around the Bay Area.p> 

Copyright 1994 The Free Press



     Go back to front page

::::::::::::::
hamlet
::::::::::::::
 Movie plot summary.



Hamlet (1990)

   Zefferelli does yet another Shakespeare, with less success than he had with Taming of the
   Shrew or Romeo and Juliet. Hamlet returns to Denmark when his father, the King, dies. His
   mother Gertrude has already married Hamlet's uncle Claudius, the new King. They urge
   Hamlet to marry his beloved Ophelia. But soon the ghost of Hamlet's father appears and tells
   Hamlet that he was murdered by Claudius and Gertrude. Hamlet must choose between passive
   acquiescence and the need for a vengeance which might lead to tragedy. 
Summary written by: 
   Reid Gagle

Genre(s): 
   Drama literary tragedy shakespeare 



If you'd like to write plot summaries for movies in this database, please read this guide



Additional information...

      


    [Name Search Form | Page] [Title Search Page] [Submissions Guides] 

Movie.Database@cm.cf.ac.uk 
::::::::::::::
interviewvampire
::::::::::::::
TIME Domestic

November 21, 1994 Volume 144, No. 21


Return to Contents page 


TOOTHLESS

Interview with the Vampire falls flat, despite Tom Cruise

BY RICHARD CORLISS 

Why would Tom Cruise be playing Lestat, a gaunt, suave European vampire with a taste for young
men? Because a big movie star can do whatever he wants. And why would Neil Jordan be directing
Interview with the Vampire: The Vampire Chronicles? Because his signature films, Mona Lisa and
The Crying Game, are gay fables with mass appeal. Once again he has a sympathetic fellow (here it's
Brad Pitt as Louis, a New Orleans landowner in the 18th century) falling in with a charismatic
homosexual (Cruise's Lestat). Louis tells his story to a young interviewer (Christian Slater) in a sort of
Donahue with spooky flashbacks. 

So far, so promising. In Anne Rice's screenplay, which she adapted from her megaselling 1976 novel,
Lestat and his crew are displaced aristocrats, glorious anachronisms. They are enslaved by bloodlust:
every night a little death. They lean into the victims' necks and give them the hickey from hell, the
infernal overbite - the kiss that bleeds. The nightly rampages of these putty-faced predators suggest an
aids metaphor: voluptuous sexuality with fatal consequences. And after a couple of hundred years, the
vampires get the edgy sourness of people married too long. 

It's a cute idea to have Cruise, the movies' all-American guy, gussied up like Pierre Clementi,
protopunk of French art films. It's a bad idea to let Cruise vanish for almost an hour in the middle of
his picture. But by then the film's central flaw has been exposed. A vampire story needs vampires,
sure, but it also needs a human victim to lead the audience into the vortex and help them escape it.
Otherwise, the fear factor evaporates, and you get this mishmash: an interview in a void, a vampire
movie with underbite. 



        

Copyright 1994, Time Inc.

This document was last modified 17:48:36 EST Tue 15 Nov 94.

time-webmaster@www.timeinc.com
::::::::::::::
intvamp2andclearks
::::::::::::::


STATELY VEIN MANNER

Starring a haughty and effete Tom Cruise, 'Interview With the Vampire' is a vampish trash epic.

by OWEN GLEIBERMAN

Lestat (Tom Cruise), the high-glam bloodsucker at the center of INTERVIEW WITH THE
VAMPIRE (Warner Bros., R), is a demon who knows how to have a good time. He may be hundreds
of years old, but his spirit is teasing, youthful. He makes jaunty sport of his own immortality, flitting
through the centuries as if life as a vampire were a decadent Eurotrash party that never ends. 

                   

FOP SWEAT: Cruise and Pitt in Interview 

A harlequin aristocrat with big white teeth, a luxurious cascade of blond curls, and a stare of haughty,
cold-eyed relish--he looks satiated and ravenous at the same time--Lestat feeds on a steady stream of
men and women, whom he greedily drains of blood and then tosses aside. 

Early on, though, he develops a special attraction to one victim, Louis de Pointe du Lac (Brad Pitt), a
New Orleans plantation owner of the late 18th century, still reeling from the death of his wife and
infant daughter. Once bitten, Louis becomes Lestat's protégé, but he remains filled with guilty
trepidation about his new, otherworldly state. He refuses to kill a human being and consummate his
vampirism, surviving instead--to Lestat's playful contempt--on a diet of rats, chickens, and dogs. 

Finally, Louis gives in to his role, drinking the blood of Claudia (Kirsten Dunst), a prepubescent sprite
who turns out to be every bit as ungrateful a vampire as he is. For the next few decades, Lestat, Louis,
and Claudia form a kind of floating parody of a nuclear family, with Claudia, bratty and ill-tempered,
remaining locked in girlhood, a surly Peter Panette of the undead. 

Poor Lestat. He loves being a vampire, but no one around him will share his enthusiasm. Watching 
Interview With the Vampire, I knew just how he must feel. As a character, Lestat has brashness and
verve, but, my God, what simpering, joyless specimens these other two are! 

Adapting Anne Rice's hugely popular 1976 novel, director Neil Jordan (The Crying Game) and Rice,
who wrote the screenplay, have gone to elaborate lengths to sweep us into an erotic dreamscape, a
blooming midnight reverie of blood and danger and sin. Yet the pleasure of it all remains oddly
remote. Set over a period of about 200 years, Interview With the Vampire has an atmosphere of
moldering menace--the rotting dark colors are beautiful to look at--and there are creepy, spectral
touches, such as the tiny, spreading veins that peer through the vampires' translucent white skin. 

Dramatically, though, the picture is torpid. Rice doesn't write dialogue, exactly; she writes mournful
poetic gush. When the characters aren't chomping on each other's necks (always fun to see), they're
standing around in drawing rooms exchanging tormented pensées like, "No creatures under God are so
like He as are ourselves." I think Interview With the Vampire is pretty awful--a hodgepodge of lurid
spectacle and stilted, arty talk--yet it's virtually guaranteed to become a hit. When a modern horror
fable is given this lavish a production by this much big-name talent, even if it fails as entertainment it
takes on the status of a must-see, a nostalgic reminder of an era when audiences still swooned with
terror. 

Back in that era, of course, vampires were figments of seductive evil. Rice, in writing Interview With
the Vampire, jettisoned the old cornball symbology (the garlic and the crucifixes, the wooden stakes),
but her true inspiration was to demystify vampirism itself, recasting it as a heightened biological and
sensual state. Despite the flowery moroseness of her dialogue, the reader, in effect, was lured into
becoming a vampire, experiencing the undead from the inside out. 

At the same time, the old-world mystery lived on in Lestat, the insolent pansexual seducer-a hip,
mocking Dracula for an age of erotic knowingness. Released just as gay liberation was reaching its
apex, Interview With the Vampire became both a gay cult novel and a new kind of woman's romance, a
night fantasy of masculinity melting away to deliquescent submission. 

In the movie, rather than taking in the action through Louis' anticipatory gaze, we're simply watching
Brad Pitt act like a spaced-out, dilapidated rock star; he looks like Evan Dando on some really bad
drugs. Pitt can be a likable actor, but in Interview he gives a dismal performance, leaving the movie
without a center. As a character, Louis stays tangled up in his own gloomy remorse (forget the
casket--he might as well be living in a confessional booth), and watching Pitt, about all we register is
his stony simian stare: the thick lips and zombie eyes, the look of vague dyspepsia that could be
anything from fear to constipation. 

Cruise does much better. Suggesting at moments a sleeker Tiny Tim, he gives an engaging star
performance, caressing his words with theatrical delectation, playing Lestat as a high-camp fop who
laughs with caustic delight at his own appetites. If there's a limitation to Cruise, it's that, beneath the
mottled-flesh makeup, he doesn't exactly seethe with sensuality. His very competence--and
eagerness--in this role comes off as an admirable stretch, but he hasn't endowed Lestat with the dark
fillips of perversity that might have made the character memorable. 

Still, he remains the only one to watch in Interview With the Vampire. After a while, Lestat disappears
from the story, and the film disintegrates into fragments. Louis and Claudia go scampering off to
Paris, where they run into a whole cult of vampires who entertain themselves by staging eccentric
theatrical rites I never began to know what to make of. 

Jordan, who up till this point has given the action a static unity, now reaches for effects all over the
place. Maidens are stripped and sacrificed, burning bodies go flying, Stephen Rea (from The Crying
Game) shows up and mugs as if he were in the middle of a Monty Python sketch. Through it all,
however, one thing remains constant: the guilty, whiny agony of Brad Pitt's Louis-the vampire as
eternal killjoy. He looks like he could use a transfusion, and so, by the end, could the entire movie. 

Grade: C-


Aisle of the Damned

'Clerks' wages a slacker counter revolution

by Owen Gleiberman

The milky black-and-white photography, the atmosphere of zonked deadpan boredom, the characters
whose defining trait is their complete indifference to everything around them, including their own
lives--from its opening frames, CLERKS (Miramax, R) announces itself as the latest slacker
manifesto, an heir to those previous texts of shaggy middle-class indolence, Stranger Than Paradise
(1984) and Slacker (1991). 

Dante (Brian O'Halloran), his very name mocking the lowliness of his station, is a 22-year-old
college dropout who works the counter of a convenience store in nowheresville, New Jersey. The place
might be the last pit stop on earth--think Samuel Beckett at the Slurpee counter. Randal (Jeff
Anderson), also 22, works next door at a video emporium so crummy that if he wants to watch a good
movie, he has to go to a better store to rent it. To describe these two as friends would be an
overstatement. They're more like mutually coexistent drones. 

Unlike Stranger Than Paradise or Slacker, Clerks isn't about bohemian free thinkers whose lack of
ambition is, in effect, their mark of integrity. These are low-rent suburban proles with no illusions
that they're doing anything but wasting their lives. The movie scores some nasty laughs when the two
air their rather desperate attitudes toward women. The language pushes past sleaziness to a kind of
nihilistic raunch, especially when Randal, a misanthropic geek, is discussing the one thing in the world
he truly seems to care about: pornography. (When he finally makes it to that superior video store, he
rents a movie starring two hermaphrodites.) 

In another way, though, the film misses its mark. The dialogue in Clerks doesn't match the meticulous
banality of the atmosphere. It's punchy and fake, with some of the in-your-face showiness of
mediocre Off Broadway theater. O'Halloran, who's like a doleful cross between Charlie Sheen and
Griffin Dunne, and Anderson, who makes the very nakedness of his hostility oddly winning, are both
crack performers. But since first-time writer-director Kevin Smith--who, yes, used to work in a
convenience store--has encouraged them to step on each other's lines, we never forget that we're
watching a low-budget stunt, one whose very scruffiness has been engineered to make it the next
downtown sensation. 

Still, if Clerks lacks the grunge artistry of its forebears, it's a fast, likable 90 minutes at the movies.
The way our culture is going, this may be what a hip sitcom looks like in 15 years. 

Grade: B

Return to the ENTERTAINMENT WEEKLY home page 

Return to PATHFINDER home page.

Copyright 1994, Entertainment Weekly, Inc. 

This document was last modified 12:27:57 EST Mon 14 Nov 94.

ew-webmaster@www.timeinc.com 
       
::::::::::::::
lionking
::::::::::::::
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
eye WEEKLY                                                  June 23 1994
Toronto's arts newspaper                          ...free every Thursday
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Subject: REVIEW                                          REVIEW :Subject

                              THE LION KING

   Screenplay by Irene Mecchi, Jonathan Roberts and Linda Woolverton.
                    Songs by Tim Rice and Elton John.
                 Directed by Roger Allers and Rob Minkoff.
                     Animation. (STC) Opens June 24.

                                   by
                             ALEX PATTERSON


From '88 through '92, Disney released three animated features -- The
Little Mermaid, Beauty And The Beast and Aladdin -- that are among the
best the company has ever produced. After the death of the brilliant
lyricist Howard Ashman after completing Aladdin, it looked like this
noble trio might be the last of their species. The Lion King is here to
put such worries to rest: it's big, boisterous and a worthy successor
to Uncle Walt's throne.  

The Lion King is an unusual effort for the studio in that its story and
characters are original and not drawn from fairy tales or the public
domain. Lion-cub Simba is destined to inherit papa Mufasa's African
kingdom, until he accidentally causes the king's death in a wildebeest
stampede.  

The lad guiltily slinks off to the desert to eat grubs with lesser
creatures, forfeiting everything to his evil uncle Scar and devolving
into a slacker of the Serengeti. It's only a chance meeting with an old
friend that prompts Simba's return to his rightful place. Along the
way, there's the usual comic relief, fight scenes, musical
extravaganzas...

... and an unusual amount of tragedy. The film has been criticized by
such shrinking violets as the New York Times' Janet Maslin, who worries
that The Lion King will psychologically terrorize the young. Breeders,
relax: there's nothing here to traumatize your kids. The trampling
sequence is upsetting, yes, but like Bambi before it, the demise of the
parent is neither graphic nor gratuitous. In fact, it provides a
perfect opportunity to bring up the subject of death -- something
they're going to have to face sooner or later. (What does Maslin think
is on TV, anyway? Non-stop Barney?)

The songs, by Elton John and Tim Rice, may not be instant classics, but
they're pleasant enough in a Michael Jackson kind of a way and at least
one of them ("Can You Feel the Love Tonight") seems headed for
Hitsville, U.S.A. Rice sure ain't no Howard Ashman, though: not in a
dozen lifetimes will the former Lloyd Webber poetaster craft couplets
as clever as The Little Mermaid's "Under the Sea."  

Fortunately for us, Elton's a talented tunesmith, and has plenty of
experience wrapping memorable melodies around unworthy words from his
years with Bernie Taupin (who, in a properly run universe, would be
punching the clock at the Hallmark factory). Between the big numbers,
there's a terrific worldbeat score by Hans Zimmer that should do more
for western acceptance of African music than anything since Graceland.  

An animated movie is obviously even more of a collaborative effort than
a live-action one, but The Lion King's co-directors Roger Allers and
Rob Minkoff deserve special mention just the same: they have obviously
steered their project from start to finish with vision and
intelligence. And the off-screen all-stars -- Matthew Broderick
(Simba), James Earl Jones (Mufasa), Jeremy Irons (Scar), Whoopi
Goldberg, Cheech Marin et al. -- all do fine voice-work, and really
bring the characters to vibrant, vivid life.

The Lion King isn't quite as funny as Aladdin, nor are its songs as
strong as Beauty And The Beast's. But it's still one of the most
enjoyable entertainments of the summer. Borrow a child, conceive a
child or just go childless.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Retransmit freely in cyberspace          Author holds standard copyright
Full issue of eye available in archive ==> gopher.io.org  or  ftp.io.org
eye@io.org            "Break the Gutenberg Lock..."         416-971-8421


.
::::::::::::::
quizshow
::::::::::::::
 Movie plot summary.



Quiz Show

   An idealistic young lawyer (Rob Morrow) working for a Congressional subcommittee in the
   late 1950s discovers that TV quiz shows are being fixed. His investigation focusses on two
   contestants on the show "Twenty-One": Herbert Stempel (John Turturro), a brash
   working-class Jew from Queens, and Charles Van Doren (Ralph Fiennes), the patrician scion
   of one of America's leading literary families. Based on a true story. 
Summary written by: 
   Tim Horrigan (horrigan@hanover-crrel.army.mil)

Genre(s): 
   Drama historical political based 



If you'd like to write plot summaries for movies in this database, please read this guide



Additional information...

    San Francisco Chronicle The Tech (MIT) News and Observer KSU
E-Collegian TIME Magazine NCSU Techician    
            


    [Name Search Form | Page] [Title Search Page] [Submissions Guides] 

Movie.Database@cm.cf.ac.uk 
::::::::::::::
quizshow2
::::::::::::::
Redford's Quiz Show succeeds with moral message

QUIZ SHOW

Directed by Robert Redford.

Written by Paul Attanasio.

Starring John Turturro, Rob Morrow, Ralph Fiennes, David Paymer, and Paul Scofield.

Loews Copley Place.


By Craig K. Chang
Staff Reporter

The quiz show scandals of the 1950s perfectly sum up the tidal wave of power and fame with which
show business seduced America. Accusations that the popular show "Twenty-One" was rigged pitted
truth against half-truths, propriety against fraud basted in huge sums of money. Robert Redford's Quiz
Show takes us through this paradigm of America's burgeoning ethical precariousness, at once
pragmatic and hauntingly poignant in its desperation. With candor and breadth, Quiz Show succeeds in
defining the culprits in this supposed moral decline while animating their justification of the most
ludicrous deception: Cheating on a game show.

Two isolation chambers housed the contestants in the original NBC television show "Twenty-One." In
these boxes sealed off from the sounds of the opposing contestant, players wagered points in their
gamble of knowledge. Various bits of trivia were the game's immediate currency as players strived for
a score of 21. Drama was high in the studios and in homes all across America as new faces dominated
the screen in cycles of a few weeks and captured the curiosity of the American people.

In this reenactment, John Turturro plays Herbert Stempel, one contestant who rides the float of glory
for a few weeks. His neighbors in Queens soon recognize him as a star, a man who, before
"Twenty-One," would have run through the sieve of society's attention as does water through fingers.
Many people hail the success of the quiz show as a sign of progress, as fans of the show seem to catch a
few moments of intellectual inspiration. For once, the smart man or woman is admired instead of
teased.

Even television knows that one success story cannot carry ratings for long; thus, Dan Enwright (David
Paymer), an NBC producer at the time, tightens ship: He rigs the show to perpetuate the excitement.
Contestants such as Stempel, whose idiosyncrasies begin to wear thin, are nicely asked to take a dive,
dethrone themselves, and allow for new potentials to spark the interests of viewers, unknowing fools
baited for Geritol's advertising campaign.

Suspicious of this convenient packaging is Congressional investigator Dick Goodwin (Rob Morrow),
who intends to undermine television's masquerade as Technicolor truth for the people. He and the
most famous contestant of them all, Charles Van Doren (Ralph Fiennes), go head to head in a battle of
right and wrong. Van Doren, himself of respectable literary heritage, denies his gentle slide into the
role of television's puppet spokesman for academia, while Goodwin refuses to let fraud go unpunished.

Quiz Show obviously takes on the enterprise of television as its main focus of criticism. Redford takes
us through the contestants' internal ethical battles and portrays how exorbitant sums of money can
gently nudge even the most reluctant cheater to pass personal values through the shredder. With the
fascinating characters of Van Doren, Stempel, and Goodwin, the movie evolves into an allegory for
the lagging debt our conscience accumulates because of easy money.

But ultimately, America knew television and show business was all an act. Quiz Show attempts to
badger us with the question: Why did America have such a hard time accepting the game of deception
perpetrated by NBC executives? One reply points at charming contestants such as Van Doren, who
captured the hearts of "Twenty-One" fans and then shattered the very mask of idealism donned to woo
the public. When it transformed quiz shows into soap opera, NBC toyed not only with ratings, but
with the emotions of America .

As Dick Goodwin tries to put television on trial during the movie's climactic congressional hearing,
he instead puts people on trial, inadvertently antagonizing the public toward the contestants. Redford
suggests the quiz show scandals made America decide who really was cheated: the contestants or the
fans? This duality the story pieces together beautifully. It was really America's conscience on trial
when the quiz show host beckoned for the answer; he not only asked for trivia, he also asked a moral
question: Is it okay to deceive the public for the sake of money? Perhaps secretly deceiving remained
acceptable. The sound-proof chambers that contestants stood in week after week didn't allow for fair
competition, but rather sealed off the players' consciences from public scrutiny. 

Truth really stands on a lower pedestal than money talks in Redford's depiction of the quiz show
scandals. The shows were a contrivance to begin with: Truth had no place on tacky game shows.
America mistook the huge sums of money contestants won for the glory of alleged intellect. Only
when the fraud was verified to the people did reaching a score of 21 symbolize consummating with the
devil. The fraudulent contestants at once won America's heart by using their ostensible smarts to their
advantage and broke her trust under the conditions with which they claimed their loot. All status of
martyrdom disappears in light of financial victory; in fact money made fools of the entire country, 
Quiz Show seems to affirm. As Charles Van Doren's poetic father says to drill through the muck,
"Cheating on a quiz show is like plagiarizing a comic book."


Copyright 1994, The Tech. All rights reserved.
This story was published on September 23, 1994.
Volume 114, Number 43.
This story appeared on page 7.

This article may be freely distributed electronically, provided it is distributed in its entirety and
includes this notice, but may not be reprinted without the express written permission of The Tech.
Write to archive@the-tech.mit.edu for additional details.

Other options:

   Read other stories in this issue 
   Send us a 



   Return to our home page. 

::::::::::::::
roggerrabit
::::::::::::::
 Movie plot summary.



Who Framed Roger Rabbit

   'Toon star Roger is worried that his wife Jessica is playing pattycake with someone else, so the
   studio hires detective Eddie Valiant to snoop on her. But the stakes are quickly raised when
   Marvin Acme is found dead and Roger is the prime suspect. Groundbreaking interaction
   between the live and animated characters, and lots of references to classic animation. 
Summary written by: 
   Jon Reeves {reeves@zk3.dec.com}

   Roger Rabbit is a cartoon character who (along with many others) exists along side of real
   humans. Eddy is a private eye who has seen better days and has been on the skids since the death
   of his brother at the hands of a Toon (cartoon character). Rogers' boss hires Eddy to see if his
   sexy wife has other male interests, but things get out of hand as Roger is framed for murder
   with no one but the Toon hating Eddy to go to for help. 
Summary written by: 
   John L. Vogel {JVOGEL@NHQVAX.hq.nasa.gov}

Genre(s): 
   Comedy Fantasy part-animated screwball historical detective 



If you'd like to write plot summaries for movies in this database, please read this guide



Additional information...

    Jessica(21k)         


    [Name Search Form | Page] [Title Search Page] [Submissions Guides] 

Movie.Database@cm.cf.ac.uk 
::::::::::::::
sneakers
::::::::::::::
 Movie plot summary.



Sneakers

   A group of security analysts are offered a job by the CIA and when they are reluctant, pressure
   is brought to bear by the threat to disclose the identity of their leader, a 60s radical with
   outstanding warrants. A chip exists that will allow any computer to be cracked, and organized
   crime will soon control it, though sudden changes in their police records suggest that it is
   already operational. 
Summary written by: 
   John L. Vogel {JVOGEL@NHQVAX.hq.nasa.gov}

Genre(s): 
   Drama hacker heist spy 



If you'd like to write plot summaries for movies in this database, please read this guide



Additional information...

             

(this page was taken from the cache)


    [Name Search Form | Page] [Title Search Page] [Submissions Guides] 

Movie.Database@cm.cf.ac.uk 
::::::::::::::
sneakers2
::::::::::::::
Newsgroups: rec.arts.movies.reviews
Path: cbnewsj!ecl
From: 2fatguys@tdis.icpsr.umich.edu (Too Fat Guys)
Subject: REVIEW: SNEAKERS
Reply-To: 2fatguys@tdis.icpsr.umich.edu (Too Fat Guys)
Organization: 40 Piece Bucket and a Milkshake Publishing
Date: Tue, 15 Sep 1992 19:08:33 GMT
Approved: ecl@cbnewsj.att.com
Message-ID: <1992Sep15.190833.6845@cbnewsj.cb.att.com>
Followup-To: rec.arts.movies
Summary: r.a.m.r. #01516
Keywords: author=2FatGuys
Sender: ecl@cbnewsj.cb.att.com (Evelyn C. Leeper)
Lines: 55

                             SNEAKERS
                    A film review by Too FAT Guys
                    Copyright 1992  by Roger & Me

Roger:  I love movies made by liberals!

Roger:  Of course, this means round two of Dan vs. Hollywood. I'll be
        watching C-SPAN for his review.

Roger:  SNEAKERS, a techno-thriller, engages in some of the least subtle
        government bashing in recent memory.  Martin Bishop (Robert
        Redford) runs a computer security company with "Mother" (Dan
        Aykroyd), "Whistler" (David Strathairn), Crease (Sidney Poitier),
        and Carl (River Phoenix).  They are hired by NSA agents to steal a
        black box.  After retrieving the device, they soon discover what
        it is: the ultimate code breaker.

Roger:  And this is really the only portion of the movie whose technical
        accuracy can be questioned. Using the black box, they break into
        several services, such as the "National Power Grid".  Aside from
        the improbability of such a service existing, the NPG seems to
        trust encryption enough to do away with authentication.

Roger:  There were also several other technical inaccuracies, but I was
        willing to excuse them.  Accuracy is an admirable goal, but it
        doesn't always make great cinema.  At least they bothered to hire
        a technical advisor.

Roger:  The director and co-writter, Phil Alden Robinson, is also a
        techno-phile. As a matter of fact, he could well be reading this,
        since he's a CompuServe subscriber (hi, Phil).  Perhaps his
        computer savvy explains the film's view of our information-based
        world order.

Roger:  Information plays so great a role, that the villain seems almost
        incidental.  The real target of abuse is the government.
        Certainly, the film seems to be saying that the government is the
        greatest abuser of information.  And who could fault anyone for
        criticizing the government?

Roger:  Not I.  I always enjoy a few rounds of government bashing.  In
        fact, I enjoyed most of the film.  It was suspenseful and
        well-paced.  The plot was well thought out, believable, and held
        together well.  I give this film a thumbs up.

Roger:  With little exception, the acting was fine.  With a cast this
        size, there's not much room for character depth.  However, it's
        hard to miss with this many Academy nominated actors.  I give this
        film a thumbs up as well.

Roger:  So, that's two thumbs up for SNEAKERS.  That's all for now --
        the tty is closed.
-- 
For the latest review by the Too FAT Guys, finger roger@icpsr.umich.edu.

::::::::::::::
specialist
::::::::::::::
The Specialist resurrects the big, dumb action flick

The Specialist

Directed by Luis Llosa.

Written by Alexandra Seros.

Starring Sylvester Stallone, Sharon Stone, James Woods, Rod Steiger, and Eric Roberts.

Loews Cheri.

By Teresa Esser
This latest in the long line of Stallone testosterone action flicks was everything that I expected it to be.
It was a meaty movie, indeed, but that meat was so ground-up and re-processed that I had a hard time
identifying it as art.

The movie followed a very standard agenda. Sharon Stone's character watches her parents get
murdered, and later becomes obsessed with plotting the deaths of the three assailants. Sylvester
Stallone is a professional killer who comes out of retirement because of the way Stone's voice sounds
over the phone.

Can you guess what happens from there? Is Stone avenged? Can Stallone carry out three more routine
killings?

But don't worry. There's more to The Specialist than the plot.

The Specialist is a movie of moments, of which "the cat" was my favorite. At the start of the film, a
random cat begins to rub itself against Sly's leg. Sly bends down, picks it up, and takes it back to his
apartment. (Bravo!) The cat shows up again and again throughout the movie once eating fresh fish that
the grocery boy delivers and later chasing a rat up the wall as Sly puts some explosives together. The
cat's stunt double is utilized at a crucial moment toward the end of the film, when the cat is required to
jump down the safety hatch to escape from an exploding building.

Now, I know what you're thinking. Can't most animals take care of themselves? Yes, probably, but
how many movies actually show the family pet escaping along with the main characters? The
producers of The Specialist went to great lengths to show the audience that their hero is a sensitive
man in his own way. In the opening scene, for example, Sly doesn't want to blow up a bridge over a
hydroelectric dam not because it would destroy the chief source of power for all the citizens of
Bogota, Columbia, but because there is a girl in the drug dealer's car.

Later, he manages to justify a bus brawl (which ended with the villains being thrown through a bus
window) because one of them refuses to give up the seat that Stallone had allocated to a pregnant
woman.

Unfortunately, The Specialist's chivalrous writers gave their female characters some of the worst roles
imaginable. Aside from the murdered mother, a slew of prostitutes, and a single police-force
underling, Sharon Stone plays the only female character. To make matters worse, Stone's character is
largely a spineless victim. It was disappointing to realize that what started out as Stone's revenge
scheme ends up as a feud between old army rivals. Why did Stone have to give herself away (yet again)
as a cheap sexual object?

Some of the minor costuming details throughout the movie were, however, rather amusing. I found
that I could predict some of the action in the film by paying careful attention to the Sharon Stone's
clothes and hair. In the beginning, in the very opening scenes, Mae Munro/Adrian Rice/Sharon Stone is
in control. She calls Stallone, thereby summoning him from his "retirement." She alone convinces him
to help track down her killers. Accordingly, the filmmakers dress her in white, specifically in the same
white micro-tunic that she wore in Basic Instinct. She wears her hair pulled back in a tight ponytail,
and she keeps her jaw set in a firm line.

Later in the film, when it is revealed that she was being used as a decoy by Stallone's personal enemy,
she is shown in silver or brownish outfits. When she is being slapped around by the "bad" guy, her hair
is messed up. Toward the end, as the explosive deaths build to a climax, Stone wears black in every
scene, and her hair is neat. Her hair is neat regardless of the bombs exploding all around her, or the
wind rushing past her on Sly's speedboat. What does it mean?

Conversely, Stallone's appearance remains constant during the entire movie. It doesn't matter whether
he is taking out thugs on the city bus, or setting explosives between the swinging doors of a brothel.
Morning or night, in the bedroom or in church, Stallone wears a white cotton tee-shirt and two days'
stubble.

You've got to admire a man who can blow up buildings without turning to look at them. You've got to
marvel at a man who can throw street thugs through reinforced bus windows without losing his breath.
You won't believe that a human being could boil another in a lobster pot without breaking a sweat
himself. But Stallone does! And miraculously, not once during the entire movie do Sly's armpits get
stained!

Ah, Hollywood. You've got to love it. But you don't have to watch it.


Copyright 1994, The Tech. All rights reserved.
This story was published on October 14, 1994.
Volume 114, Number 48.
This story appeared on page 17.

This article may be freely distributed electronically, provided it is distributed in its entirety and
includes this notice, but may not be reprinted without the express written permission of The Tech.
Write to archive@the-tech.mit.edu for additional details.

Other options:

   Read other stories in this issue 
   Send us a 



   Return to our home page. 

::::::::::::::
stgeneration2
::::::::::::::
Now playing from Paramount Pictures... 

STAR TREK GENERATIONS

The "Star Trek" generations converge in "Star Trek Generations" starring Patrick Stewart and
William Shatner. In the futuristic adventure film, a mysterious astronomical phenomenon bridging
different time frames brings the two famous captains of the Enterprise face-to-face: Captain
Jean-Luc Picard (Stewart) and Captain James T. Kirk (Shatner). 

To herald this unprecedented adventure, Paramount Pictures is proud to present this World Wide Web
site. Featuring the official movie preview, exclusive sights and sounds from the motion picture, behind
the scenes information, authorized merchandise, and more, this site brings the Final Frontier to the
cyber frontier. 

Don't forget to give us your input on Star Trek and this Web site. As our way of saying "thanks" for
your response, you will receive the official Star Trek Generations digital poster image. 

Enjoy -- we'll see you at the movies (U.S. and Canada) for Star Trek Generations! 

(Link to sites for software to view photos, play movies, or hear sounds on UNIX , Macintosh , or 
Windows) 


Starship Console 

Select the section you wish to visit: 

Movie Preview , Sights and Sounds , Behind the Scenes , Star Trek Shop , Your Input 


::::::::::::::
stgenerations
::::::::::::::
 Movie plot summary.



Star Trek: Generations

   The evil Dr. Soren, determined to regain entry into a timeless place called "The Nexxus", takes
   the Enterprise crew on another adventure. This time, the going gets very rough for both ship
   and crew. The film begins with a snippet of Captain Kirk (the original Enterprise captain)
   dying in the line of duty. The audience knows this isn't true (because we've *all* seen how a
   space-time anomoly has magical effects of dead Enterprise officers)and Kirk later joins with
   Picard to save the day. 
Summary written by: 
   cboyer@nando.net

Genre(s): 
   Sci-Fi Action futuristic time-travel space 



If you'd like to write plot summaries for movies in this database, please read this guide



Additional information...

    Poster/25k Viacom's info   


    [Name Search Form | Page] [Title Search Page] [Submissions Guides] 

Movie.Database@cm.cf.ac.uk 
::::::::::::::
terminalvel
::::::::::::::
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
eye WEEKLY                                           September 22 1994
Toronto's arts newspaper                      .....free every Thursday
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Subject: REVIEW                                        REVIEW :Subject

                           TERMINAL VELOCITY
              Starring Charlie Sheen and Nastassja Kinski.
        Screenplay by David Twohy. Directed by Darren Serafian.
                         (STC) Opens Sept. 23.


                          TERMINAL MEDIOCRITY

                                  by
                            ALEX PATTERSON


In the time-honored tradition (well, the last 10 years, anyway) of  
the hi-voltage, low-IQ, heavy-hardware blow'em-up, Terminal  
Velocity's job description is No-Brainer. But nobody said No-
Brainers had to be dumb.

Maybe the problem starts with the star, Charlie Sheen, who as the  
poor man's Emilio Estevez makes a good argument for the theory of  
devolution. In a year when Keanu Reeves and even Tom Arnold have  
emerged as persuasive mesomorph material, I'm disinclined to  
accept the pretty-boy preenings of Sheen. His character, Ditch,  
described at one point as "a walking penis" (see current issue of  
Movieline for sordid corroboration) is a cocky skydiving instructor  
who gets lured into international intrigue and suchlike by a  
mysterious sexpot (Nastassja Kinski).

Or maybe the culprit is the story -- something to do with the K.G.  
Used-to-B. hijacking gold to finance Russia's return to  
totalitarianism -- which manages to be complicated without  
complex. Connect-the-dots plotting and red herrings by the kilo  
come courtesy of David Twohy, a diploma holder from the Shane  
Black (Lethal Weapon, The Last Boy Scout) School of Screenwriting.

Director Darren Serafian does get off a couple of good parachuting  
sequences and flammable phenomena. But even the most techno  
thrillers need characters you care about, and here the human factor's  
been factored out: for screen presence, Sheen runs a poor second to  
the '70 Dodge Challenger he drives, while Kinski alternates between  
giggling like an pothead and shrilling like a shrew. Arnold and Jamie  
Lee they ain't.

The witless, soulless Terminal Velocity has precisely two things  
going for it: (1) Action fans can always see True Lies instead and (2)  
It's not quite as bad as Timecop. But it's sure not up to Speed.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Retransmit freely in cyberspace        Author holds standard copyright
Full issue of eye available in archive ==> gopher.io.org or ftp.io.org
Mailing list available                           http://www.io.org/eye
eye@io.org           "Break the Gutenberg Lock..."        416-971-8421
  

.
::::::::::::::
timecop
::::::::::::::

        TIMECOP: Science fiction. Starring Jean-Claude Van Damme and Ron Silver.
Directed by Peter Hyams. (R. 98 minutes. At Bay Area theaters.)



Van Damme -- Action Hero Tries A Little Acting 

`Timecop' a fantasy thriller with human touch 

BY MICK LaSALLE 
Chronicle Staff Critic 
The desire to go back in time to change things -- or just to visit -- is so central to the experience of
being alive and stuck in time that ``Timecop'' has a built-in power, going in. It's a power the film, a
satisfying science-fiction thriller opening today, takes full advantage of. 

The picture, based on a comic book series from the creators of ``The Mask,'' is set in a near future
when time travel is possible. Jean-Claude Van Damme plays Time Enforcement Officer Walker, who
is part of a government agency set up to make sure no one goes into the past and does anything to
change the present.

``Timecop'' gets off to a wild start, with a lone bandit robbing a shipment of gold from five
Confederate soldiers in 1863. That's five against one, but in this case the lone bandit is carrying two
Uzis. This is followed by an unusually clear and intelligent setting-up scene, in which an Intelligence
agent in 1994 informs a Senate committee about the security threat posed by time travel.

``We can't go back in time and kill Hitler, much as we'd like to,'' he says. The reason: It would change
-- and possibly destroy -- the present world.

Two plot strains run through ``Timecop,'' a personal one and a political one. The personal one
concerns the loss Agent Walker is carrying -- his wife (Mia Sara) was killed by intruders in 1994. The
second deals with the machinations of a ruthless, maniacal senator named McComb (Ron Silver) to
manipulate the past in order to make himself president of the United States.

No Olivier

Those of us who have always liked Van Damme -- though no one would mistake him for Olivier --
do so for two reasons: He is a convincing action hero, in all senses of the term. He can do the action,
and -- unlike Schwarzenegger, for example -- he seems genuinely heroic. And he is personable: He
comes across as a nice guy.

In ``Timecop'' Van Damme gets plenty of chances to be heroic, but his human side gets a workout, too.
The picture provides him with his best acting opportunities to date -- for example, the touching scene
in which he is shown in 2004 watching 10-year-old videotapes of his dead wife. Aside from a brief
dip into Civil War times and a visit to Wall Street after the stock market crash of 1929, ``Timecop'' is
not a time travelogue, but a thriller that shuttles back and forth between 2004 and 1994. Director Peter
Hyams, who served as his own director of photography, uses computer morphing to indicate the
schism that the time machine opens. The air ripples, then settles back down, like water.

Van Damme, who started as a martial arts star, gets into some high-stepping kung fu action in only
one extended sequence, when several henchmen break into his apartment while he's asleep and try to
kill him. As the senator, Silver is a tough-talking, take-charge, New York-style monomaniac, a
worthy foil who seems smarter and more dangerous than our Timecop hero. Most of the film is an
extended battle between the Timecop and the senator, with each going back to change the past in order
to own the present.

Double Van Dammes

One scene has two Van Dammes and two Silvers -- the 2004 and 1994 versions -- fighting it out.

``Timecop'' ultimately raises a distracting number of questions about time travel and the possibilities
for changing the past. On each occasion that the Timecop comes back to 2004 he finds a different
world than the one he left -- the consequence of new things' having happened in 1994. But if the
present can be changed by something new in the past, then how? Abruptly? Or does Officer Walker
come back each time to a parallel world?

The film doesn't bother to answer these questions. A certain laziness in the thinking end of the
screenplay is the only major failing of ``Timecop.''

Still, the picture moves. The action keeps coming at you, and when it slows down, ``Timecop'' has
something much less expected: a heart.


09/16 

